README.md, before:

# Ticketing System

### Table Schemas

`CREATE TABLE issues`

| column | type | possible values |
|:---|:---|:---|
| id | `int` |  |
| created_on | `int` |  |
| updated_on | `int` |  |
| created_by | `string` |  |
| issue_name | `string` |  |
| issue_project | `string` |  |
| issue_type | `enum` | bug, task, feature, requirement, support, epic |
| issue_priority | `enum` | 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 |
| issue_story_points | `int` |  |
| issue_summary | `string` |  |
| issue_description | `string` |  |
| issue_status | `enum` | open, assigned, in_progress, on_hold, under_review, done, released |
| issue_resolution | `enum` | invalid, wont_fix, overcome_by_events, unable_to_replicate, duplicate, complete |
| issue_affected_version | `string` |  |
| issue_fixed_version | `string` |  |
| issue_assigned_to | `string` |  |

---

`CREATE TABLE activity` *many-to-one with `issues`*

| column | type | possible values |
|:---|:---|:---|
| id | `int` |  |
| created_on | `int` |  |
| updated_on | `int` |  |
| created_by | `string` |  |
| issue_id | `int` |  |
| issue_name | `string` |  |
| activity_type | `enum` | comment, assignment, status, resolution |
| activity_text | `string` |  |

---

`CREATE TABLE users`

**TODO**

`ENUMS`

| table_name | table_column | name | value |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| issues | issue_type | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| issues | issue_type | BUG | 1 |
| issues | issue_type | TASK | 2 |
| issues | issue_type | FEATURE | 3 |
| issues | issue_type | REQUIREMENT | 4 |
| issues | issue_type | SUPPORT | 5 |
| issues | issue_type | EPIC | 6 |
| issues | issue_status | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| issues | issue_status | OPEN | 1 |
| issues | issue_status | ASSIGNED | 2 |
| issues | issue_status | IN_PROGRESS | 3 |
| issues | issue_status | ON_HOLD | 4 |
| issues | issue_status | UNDER_REVIEW | 5 |
| issues | issue_status | DONE | 6 |
| issues | issue_status | RELEASED | 7 |
| issues | issue_resolution | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| issues | issue_resolution | UNRESOLVED | 1 |
| issues | issue_resolution | INVALID | 2 |
| issues | issue_resolution | WONT_FIX | 3 |
| issues | issue_resolution | OVERCOME_BY_EVENTS | 4 |
| issues | issue_resolution | UNABLE_TO_REPLICATE | 5 |
| issues | issue_resolution | DUPLICATE | 6 |
| issues | issue_resolution | COMPLETE | 7 |
| activity | activity_type | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| activity | activity_type | COMMENT | 1 |
| activity | activity_type | ASSIGNMENT | 2 |
| activity | activity_type | STATUS | 3 |
| activity | activity_type | RESOLUTION | 4 |
| users | user_type | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| users | user_type | ADMIN | 1 |
| users | user_type | USER | 2 |


---

### Endpoints

- `/`: homepage
- `/issues`: browse all tickets
- `/issues/{ticket}`: view details of a specific ticket
- `/dashboard`: Kanban board
- `/metrics`: statistics on outstanding issues, resolution times, etc..

---

### UI Components
- auth provider/login page
- admin panel with separate data tables for each SQL table & editing capability
- ~~new issue page component for creation~~
- comment creation component with markdown support
- loading spinner on all page components
- activity children components for each activity_type

---

### TODO
- use url params in /issues table to set view (closed/open issues, pageNo, rowsPerPage)
- generic activity component which handles all activity types
- new issue submission logic, toast notification with link to single issue

---

### Grafana Queries

```sql
-- distribution of all issues by type
SELECT issue_type AS "Issue Type", COUNT (issue_type) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_type ORDER BY 1;

-- distribution of all issues by resolution
SELECT issue_resolution AS "Issue Resolution", COUNT (issue_resolution) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_resolution ORDER BY 1;

-- distribution of all issues by status, TODO: filter by issue_resolution LIKE '%unresolved%'
SELECT issue_status AS "Issue Status", COUNT (issue_status) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_status ORDER BY 1;

-- issue priority histogram
SELECT issue_priority AS "Issue Priority", COUNT (issue_priority) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_priority ORDER BY 1;

-- issue story points histogram
SELECT issue_story_points AS "Issue Story Points", COUNT (issue_story_points) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_story_points ORDER BY 1;

-- number of unresolved tickets per person, sorted high to low
SELECT issue_assigned_to AS "Assignee", COUNT (issue_assigned_to) AS "Unresolved Issues" FROM issues WHERE issue_resolution LIKE '%unresolved%' GROUP BY issue_assigned_to ORDER BY 2 DESC;


-- single column count, use multiple queries
SELECT COUNT(*) FILTER (WHERE issue_type LIKE '%TASK%') AS "TASK" FROM issues;
```

---

### Notes

```js
const query = new URLSearchParams({foo: 1, bar: true, zed: 'maybe'}).toString()
const url = `http://example.com${query ? '?' + query : ''}`
console.log(url)
// http://example.com?foo=1&bar=true&zed=maybe
```

Commit message:

New issue creation form and logic

README.md, after:

# Ticketing System

### Table Schemas

`CREATE TABLE issues`

| column | type | possible values |
|:---|:---|:---|
| id | `int` |  |
| created_on | `int` |  |
| updated_on | `int` |  |
| created_by | `string` |  |
| issue_name | `string` |  |
| issue_project | `string` |  |
| issue_type | `enum` | bug, task, feature, requirement, support, epic |
| issue_priority | `enum` | 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 |
| issue_story_points | `int` |  |
| issue_summary | `string` |  |
| issue_description | `string` |  |
| issue_status | `enum` | open, assigned, in_progress, on_hold, under_review, done, released |
| issue_resolution | `enum` | invalid, wont_fix, overcome_by_events, unable_to_replicate, duplicate, complete |
| issue_affected_version | `string` |  |
| issue_fixed_version | `string` |  |
| issue_assigned_to | `string` |  |

---

`CREATE TABLE activity` *many-to-one with `issues`*

| column | type | possible values |
|:---|:---|:---|
| id | `int` |  |
| created_on | `int` |  |
| updated_on | `int` |  |
| created_by | `string` |  |
| issue_id | `int` |  |
| issue_name | `string` |  |
| activity_type | `enum` | comment, assignment, status, resolution |
| activity_text | `string` |  |

---

`CREATE TABLE users`

**TODO**

`ENUMS`

| table_name | table_column | name | value |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| issues | issue_type | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| issues | issue_type | BUG | 1 |
| issues | issue_type | TASK | 2 |
| issues | issue_type | FEATURE | 3 |
| issues | issue_type | REQUIREMENT | 4 |
| issues | issue_type | SUPPORT | 5 |
| issues | issue_type | EPIC | 6 |
| issues | issue_status | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| issues | issue_status | OPEN | 1 |
| issues | issue_status | ASSIGNED | 2 |
| issues | issue_status | IN_PROGRESS | 3 |
| issues | issue_status | ON_HOLD | 4 |
| issues | issue_status | UNDER_REVIEW | 5 |
| issues | issue_status | DONE | 6 |
| issues | issue_status | RELEASED | 7 |
| issues | issue_resolution | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| issues | issue_resolution | UNRESOLVED | 1 |
| issues | issue_resolution | INVALID | 2 |
| issues | issue_resolution | WONT_FIX | 3 |
| issues | issue_resolution | OVERCOME_BY_EVENTS | 4 |
| issues | issue_resolution | UNABLE_TO_REPLICATE | 5 |
| issues | issue_resolution | DUPLICATE | 6 |
| issues | issue_resolution | COMPLETE | 7 |
| activity | activity_type | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| activity | activity_type | COMMENT | 1 |
| activity | activity_type | ASSIGNMENT | 2 |
| activity | activity_type | STATUS | 3 |
| activity | activity_type | RESOLUTION | 4 |
| users | user_type | UNKNOWN | 0 |
| users | user_type | ADMIN | 1 |
| users | user_type | USER | 2 |


---

### Endpoints

- `/`: homepage
- `/issues`: browse all tickets
- `/issues/{ticket}`: view details of a specific ticket
- `/dashboard`: Kanban board
- `/metrics`: grafana dashboard

---

### UI Components
- auth provider/login page
- admin panel with separate data tables for each SQL table & editing capability
- comment creation component with markdown support
- loading spinner on all page components
- activity children components for each activity_type

---

### TODO
- use url params in /issues table to set view (closed/open issues, pageNo, rowsPerPage)
- generic activity component which handles all activity types
- new issue submission logic, toast notification with link to single issue
- add `links` object to response which returns pagination params and issue url

---

### Grafana Queries

```sql
-- distribution of all issues by type
SELECT issue_type AS "Issue Type", COUNT (issue_type) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_type ORDER BY 1;

-- distribution of all issues by resolution
SELECT issue_resolution AS "Issue Resolution", COUNT (issue_resolution) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_resolution ORDER BY 1;

-- distribution of all issues by status, TODO: filter by issue_resolution LIKE '%unresolved%'
SELECT issue_status AS "Issue Status", COUNT (issue_status) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_status ORDER BY 1;

-- issue priority histogram
SELECT issue_priority AS "Issue Priority", COUNT (issue_priority) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_priority ORDER BY 1;

-- issue story points histogram
SELECT issue_story_points AS "Issue Story Points", COUNT (issue_story_points) AS "Count" FROM issues GROUP BY issue_story_points ORDER BY 1;

-- number of unresolved tickets per person, sorted high to low
SELECT issue_assigned_to AS "Assignee", COUNT (issue_assigned_to) AS "Unresolved Issues" FROM issues WHERE issue_resolution LIKE '%unresolved%' GROUP BY issue_assigned_to ORDER BY 2 DESC;


-- single column count, use multiple queries
SELECT COUNT(*) FILTER (WHERE issue_type LIKE '%TASK%') AS "TASK" FROM issues;
```

---

### Notes

```js
const query = new URLSearchParams({foo: 1, bar: true, zed: 'maybe'}).toString()
const url = `http://example.com${query ? '?' + query : ''}`
console.log(url)
// http://example.com?foo=1&bar=true&zed=maybe
```
